Package: cedille
Version: 1.0.0
Maintainer: Cedille Development Team, The University of Iowa <aaron-stump@uiowa.edu>
Architecture: all
Homepage: https://cedille.github.io/
#Vcs-Browser: https://github.com/cedille/cedille
#Vcs-Git: https://github.com/cedille/cedille.git
Description: Cedille is a dependently typed programming language.
 Cedille is an interactive theorem-prover and dependently typed programming language, based on extrinsic
 (aka Curry-style) type theory. This makes it rather different from type theories like Coq and Agda, which are intrinsic
 (aka Church-style). In Cedille, terms are nothing more than annotated versions of terms of pure untyped lambda
 calculus. In contrast, in Coq or Agda, the various typing annotations one writes are intrinsic parts of terms, and can
 be erased, if at all, only as an optimization under certain conditions, not in virtue of the definition of the
 type theory.
 .
 Cedille’s type theory allows one to derive inductive datatypes, together with their induction principles. These
 derivations are done via lambda-encodings, including not just the familiar Church encoding (with its well-known
 limitation to inefficient accessors), but also more efficient Parigot and Mendler encodings. The planned 1.1 version
 of Cedille will support datatype declarations and pattern-matching recursion, via elaboration to certain of these
 encodings. (This feature did not quite make it into the 1.0 release.)
 .
 Cedille is used from an emacs mode, which communicates with the backend tool. The emacs mode supports convenient
 navigation of the source text following the structure of its syntax tree. Typing and context information is available
 for all subexpressions as one navigates, as well as information related to type inference. Cedille implements a novel
 form of local type inference called spine-local type inference. At the moment this is restricted to solving for
 first-order type variables, but in the coming 2018-2019 academic year we plan to add support for inferring values for
 term variables as well as dependent and higher-order type variables.
